I don't know how you put someone in a position to
become more empathetic or compassionate. That's an intrinsic thing. That's
not something you can just read in a book and you naturally have
love for someone else, or care for someone else who is struggling.
interdisciplinary team with nurses, outreach workers. We get
support from psychiatry in the hospital as well and we liaison with
prescribers of the community. We are always advocating for clients in the
emergency department whether that be a certification to
psychiatry or a medical floor, whatever the case may be.
We work with the individual as through their stay in hospital and try
to have them land in community as gently as possible upon discharge.
We also have a 44 bed unit. We support
most of the clients that live in that space.
Previously to that they were either precariously housed or
homeless, visibly homeless in the community. Stigma care is one thing that's
on the forefront of all my colleagues that work for the intensive case
management team. Through that we try to use a client centered approach,
a trauma informed approach and to best support our clients and advocate
on their behalf. It is something that unfortunately
we do see a lot of in hospital and in community and
we try to be the advocates for these people who sometimes don't have
a voice in these situations. It's not an easy fix. It's not like
setting an arm and doing an x ray and putting a cast on
and you're good in six weeks. This is just, every day is ever
changing and there is no perfect outcome. So I think that can also
be overwhelming for people and they get anxious and they just don't know
how to deal with seeing someone in that situation again and again and
again and again and again. So stigma can happen
and does happen unfortunately in many different situations and paths I cross
in my line of work which could range from the community to the
emergency department. I just recently had a client who was
new to town, ended up not being able to find any housing and
ended up at the shelter. She was fleeing a 13 year
domestic violence relationship, coming up here to try to get some
space from her ex partner. Due to the nature of her
alcohol use disorder, she ended up... We ended up doing a wellness check,
she was semi unconscious in her room. We brought her into the
emergency department, were instantly thrown with why then you... Why isn't
she in the drunk tank. I try to relate to when that first
trauma happened, that sort of set things in motion and use that,
that takes away all stigma because that can happen at
different ages, different times in their life and I work from that point
as to when the person first got hurt and how we can now
build some relationship and try to make things a little bit better,
just piece by piece.